# CS-340 Client/Server Development
# How do you write programs that are maintainable, readable, and adaptable? Especially consider your work on the CRUD Python module from Project One, which you used to connect the dashboard widgets to the database in Project Two. What were the advantages of working in this way? How else could you use this CRUD Python module in the future?
This is my first time experiencing full-stack development. I have never worked on 3 layers of a program all at once like this and it was extremely enlightening. Writing programs that are maintainable means that you are developing a product that can be managed and grown by other individuals other than yourself. This means keeping your files organized, your code well commented, and keeping to best practices. This leads me to my next point: Readability. This also encompasses the overall structure and organization of your code that you have written. Keeping everything clean and tidy can ensure that whoever takes over the program in the future can easily pick up where you left off without issue. Lastly, keeping code adaptable means that we are ensure that our program is modular and can be built on. Undoubtably in the future there is the possiblity for growth, and you want to ensure that your program can handle that. For example, We first made a MongoDB backend to suppport all of the data going in and out of the web application. In the middle, we created a python script to hold and control the functionality that runs queries on our backend and outputs the results to the shell successfully. Finally, we created a web application shell using Jupyter Notebook so that the users could easily access this information. I think the advantages of spplitting up the development into different stages like this is modularity and organization. This makes it easy to adapt and change any functionality without having to go back and rebuild everything from the ground up. This also helps with error handling, having different layers lets us pinpoint exactly where problems are when they arise. Lastly, you could easily implement the CRUD python module into any weba application that requires the same functionality.
# How do you approach a problem as a computer scientist? Consider how you approached the database or dashboard requirements that Grazioso Salvare requested. How did your approach to this project differ from previous assignments in other courses? What techniques or strategies would you use in the future to create databases to meet other client requests?
First, understanding the clients requests is a top priority. The requests made by Grazioso Salvare were very simple and easy to implement. They asked for their logo to be placed on the top of the web application, for specific radio buttons to display certain results, and to have 2 types of charts displaying the data of an interactive table. Luckily, I had plenty of resources to help me understand exactly how to implement the necessary features on my web application. The approach I took was taking this from the ground up. By that I mean I successfully set up a back end and user/admin accounts, then I created the python module and ensured it was functioning properly, then I created the shell for the web application. By the end of it I had no issue fulfilling the requests made by Grazioso Salvare because I tested and ensured that my functionality was solid throughout development. In terms of what I would take with me to future clients, I will take keep the ground-up approach I took on this project. 
# What do computer scientists do, and why does it matter? How would your work on this type of project help a company, like Grazioso Salvare, to do their work better?
Workable says that "computer scientist use technology to solve problems and prepare for the future". While this isnt wrong, I believe it is a generalization. Computer scientist are experts at using technology and applications to help companies achieve their objectives. This could be better data organization, enhancing network quality, or even reworking a current system. This role is crucial in the computer science industry because it ultimately has to do with innovation. With technology constantly changing and evolving, the job of computer scientists help companies keep up with that demand by performing tasks that are needed. For example, the work I performed on the Grazioso Salvare company allowed them to easily identify what type of animals they needed for exactly the type of job required. If that was not in place they would have to spend hours of manpower searching through the database to find specific animals for what they needed. Instead, they now click a button, and it shows them the location of the animal, and all of the information of it as well. Though it is not a major game-changer, it did improve the overall quality of the companies searching capabilities and allows for them to spend resources on other things that may require them. 
